
Virtually all of Stanford's undergraduates live on campus. Write a note to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that will help your roommate--and us--know you better.


Dear future roommate,


As much as I had hoped our introductions would be made in person, I am just as glad that we will know each other before we even meet.


Like the people around me would say, I try my best to brighten everyone’s mood. But first, I have to keep myself in high spirits in order to help others, right? So, should you see me practicing yoga, as it is my nightly routine, feel free to join me. I will show you the “garland,” the “prasarita,” and the “downward facing dog,” common yoga poses that help relieve stress and bring peace to the mind. Through these exercises, we can enter a state of positivity while familiarizing ourselves with each other. I understand that going to college without recognizing many people is intimidating, especially when friends may not be around to listen to your thoughts and give you advice, but yoga can help us bond.


Also, I hope you love music as much as I do. Growing up with two instruments, the piano and flute, I have found that music helps me express what I cannot in words. Without music, I am like a shaken-up pop bottle with the pressure trapped inside; music unscrews the cap and provides an outlet for my emotions. Of course, I cannot bring my piano into our dorm, but you can always come listen to me play in the practice rooms; I will be more than happy to perform for you. And if you play an instrument, maybe we can try a duet.


I am greatly looking forward to meeting you. As you can see, I am very open and approachable. Through our year together, I believe I can be a friend you trust.


Sincerely,Jenny


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Stanford admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Stay hungry, stay foolish. Steve Jobs


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

