
Requirements: Respond in two lines or less, and do not feel compelled to answer using complete sentences. 300 characters.


Name your favorite books, authors, films, and/or musical artists.


Books: Wuthering Heights, Harry Potter, The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, Rebecca Films: V for Vendetta, The King’s Speech, The Social Network, Transformers Musical Artists: Chopin and Prokofiev


What newspapers, magazines, and/or websites do you enjoy? 


Websites: The Onion, Food Gawker, Washington Post, Forbes Magazines: TIME, The Economist, Popular Science, National Geographic


What is the most significant challenge that society faces today? 


Society should learn to use technology as an aid, not as a substitute for thinking or for communicating face-to-face with others.


How did you spend your last two summers? 


I spent my days either working at a technology consulting firm, designing the website and managing records, or conducting research on breast cancer at the Karmanos Cancer Institute.


What were your favorite events (e.g., performances, exhibits, sporting events, etc.) this past year? 


Watching The Phantom of the Opera on Broadway was truly breathtaking just as seeing BLAST!, a marching ensemble incorporated with music, dancing, and singing, was inspirational.


What historical moment or event do you wish you could have witnessed? 


I want to witness the making of the Mayan calendar. These Mayans have imposed upon people today the belief that the world will end... in 2012. So how much of it is true?


What five words best describe you? 


Sweet, sociable, studious, sincere, spirited 


 


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Stanford admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it. Aristotle


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

