
Discuss an accomplishment or event, formal or informal, that marked your transition from childhood to adulthood within your culture, community, or family.


I wasn’t sure why I had come to this temple. To get away from the stares and the vulnerability I felt on the streets? The shameless leering and whistling of Indian men made me feel exposed to my core – a constant reminder that I didn’t belong in this country, that no matter how much mehindi I painted on my hands, I would always stick out to the men loitering at chai stalls. 


I rarely felt as weak as I had these past few weeks, as overwhelmed and as used. Everywhere I went, I was judged purely on the way I look. Rich enough that no matter how many gruff “nahis” I uttered, rickshaw drivers always cajoled me to go places I didn’t need to and charged triple the local price. Blonde enough to be a picture of Western promiscuity, an opportunity to practice broken pick-up lines and lean in for the occasional butt-squeeze. 


At first, this temple seemed an unlikely place to seek relief. Garish, it didn’t fit in a city of faded buildings; the din of incessant ringing bells and chanted mantras penetrated the cracks of the paint. Dirty too – remains of milk offerings and hibiscus flowers clung to my bare feet. Crowds hoping for a blessing by the goddess rhythmically circled the temple. No space to think. And it reeked; the unmistakable smell of India, that raw, intimate stench of human flesh. 


Yet, in the midst of all this chaos, I felt calm. 


Looking up, Ma-Durga’s enormous painted eyes were penetrating. Was she what comforted me? Durga is a strong, fearless goddess who doesn’t let anyone get in the way of accomplishing her goals. I thought of Durga’s tectonic laughter, her patience, her bravery and her confidence – the strength to defeat demons. Is it these human qualities that separate her from every other Goddess, that make her the kind of woman I want to be? 


Beneath the dirt, the smell, and the noise, this temple represented a touchstone for my aspirations. These walls didn’t break under the stress of high standards. They flourished. This temple inspired people. As I looked around, I realized that everyone seemed happy – the stark contrast of smiling white teeth on brown skin. This temple gave me a sense of comfortable familiarity in an otherwise foreign place, and reminded me that to belong is more complicated than simply fitting in. 


I slipped on my sandals and made my way into the street. My frustration wouldn’t change anything. In fact, my self-consciousness kept me from immersing myself in the culture and the community that surrounded me. Laughter, patience, bravery, confidence. I feel the strength of Durga within me. I am my own temple.


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Common App admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. Nelson Mandela


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

