
Here's a sample Common App activities list.


Activity type: Community Service (Volunteer)


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: Key Club: Club President; Kiwanis Coordinator (1)


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: High school community service organization which I helped coordinate as Club President. Earned the Gold Member Award as well as 300+ service hours.


 


Activity type: Work (Paid)


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: Kumon Learning Center: Grader/Assistant (2)


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: Assisted in the grading of math and reading papers, as well as tutoring for higher level math students of the Kumon Program.


 


Activity type: Science/Math


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: Physics Club: Secretary (6)


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: Input data sheets and maintained minutes for the Physics Club, especially in regards to fundraisers and experimental activities.


 


Activity type: Academic


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: AP Club


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: Attended club meetings to gain information on college and high school advancement programs, as well as the end-of-the-year college trip. (9)


Activity type: Work (Paid)


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: Precalculus Tutor (5)


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: Pro­vided paid tu­tor­ing for a high school se­nior en­rolled in a high school Pre­cal­cu­lus course.


 


Activity type: Community Service (Volunteer)


Position/Leadership description and organization name, if applicable: Scott Peters' Midterm Campaign (8)


Details, honors won, and accomplishments: Helped inform registered voters with the intentions to advertise the reelection of Congressman Scott Peters to the 52nd Congressional District.


 


Serrandipity: Senior Editor 


Pro­vided final edits for the school news­pa­per and its con­trib­u­tors while still re­tain­ing the re­spon­si­bil­i­ties as a Staff Writer for the school paper. (3)


 


Serrandipity: Staff Writer (4)


Con­tributed to the school news­pa­per through writ­ing one to three ar­ti­cles per month, along with con­duct­ing stu­dent in­ter­views to re­port stu­dent opin­ions.


 


Jus' Sayin (7)


Helped form lunch bags for San Diego's home­less pop­u­la­tion, then helped dis­trib­ute these bags and do­nated clothes to this par­tic­u­lar de­mo­graphic.


 


High School Math Tutoring (?)


Participated in lunchtime and afterschool tutoring for students in precalculus, calculus, and physics. Awarded Golden Student Award for contributions.


 


APIASF Scholarship Work Descriptions (Dropped scholarship)


PreCalculus Tutor Mar 2014 - Jun 2014


Position: Precalculus/ELM Math Tutor


Average hours per week: 2


During my junior year, I worked with a senior as a tutor for three different math classes and tests. The first, and most important, reason I worked with the student was to help him understand and work through his online credit recovery course in first semester Precalculus. As I worked with him in the online course, I took the methods I gained from Kumon and my enthusiastic love for the subject to provide him a greater understanding for his course, and he earned the credit he needed towards graduation. I also assisted him in trigonometry for second semester precalculus, which he was enrolled in at the time, as well as assisted him in mathematics practice for the ELM. The ELM is the CSU placement test for mathematics which includes algebra and geometry questions. I furthered his understanding of the ELM, and he later passed the test as he entered SDSU.


 


Kumon Learning Center  Mar 2014 - Nov 2014


Position: Grader/Teaching Assistant


Average hours per week: 8


As a Kumon assistant, I provided students with help in their reading and mathematics Kumon work. I initially learned how to grade papers of the programs and served as a grader for the facility's classwork from students, but I later became a teaching assistant. Most of the help I provided as an assistant was for students in high school math topics such as trigonometry, algebra, and calculus. As teaching assistant, I became engaged in working with the students one-on-one to ensure they understood their independent studies, and also worked in creating their curriculum and topic plans. This involved a careful scheduling of their coursework and analysis of their curriculum progress. Through the work program, I discovered methods of teaching that created my stronger career interest in education and research such as teaching through graphical analysis or diagrams. This job occurred off school hours during summer and the school year.


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Common App admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


The illiterate of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read and write, but those who cannot learn, unlearn, and relearn. Alvin Toffler


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

