
Virtually all of Stanford's undergraduates live on campus. Write a note to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that will help your roommate -- and us -- know you better. (250 word limit.)


Greetings future roommate!


I look forward to sharing a room and a brand new experience altogether as college freshmen! If there is one thing that you should know about me, it is that although my personality is splotched with hundreds of shades, akin to a Jackson Pollock painting, you can most certainly count on my character, which boils down to a couple traits: calm and content. I would like to compare my personality to the ocean – it has its ebb and flow, its crests and trenches, but one can always expect it to return to its natural gentle state.


The ocean has remained relevant to life for millions of years. Just like the ocean spans across eras, my interests capture that same duality, being split between vintage and modern. So don’t be intimidated to ask me to go see the new Star Wars movie when I’m still toting around my Nintendo 64 and PlayStation 2. The ocean also has its stagnant parts, like the Dead Sea. Parts of my character can be immobile, such as my surprisingly unvaried palate. Don’t bat an eye when I enjoy pizza for an entire lunar cycle! The ocean also nurtures indiscriminately. I can relate because of my sense of duty to help others, so don’t ever be afraid to ask for advice or reassurance. I’m always happy to assist!


Overall, just how the ocean always flows in a gentle manner, you can always count on me to remain loyal and retain a level head and attitude.


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Stanford admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Always do your best. What you plant now, you will harvest later. Og Mandino


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

