
Please respond to the following questions so we can get to know you better. Respond in two lines or less and do not feel compelled to answer using complete sentences.


Lord of the Rings/The Silmarillion - Tolkien; Gödel, Escher, Bach - Hofstadter; Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman - Feynman; The Code Book - Singh; The Elegant Universe - Greene. Films: Gattaca, Chariots of Fire. Music: Simon & Garfunkel, Basshunter.


NYTimes.com, ScientificAmerican.com, XKCD.com, Punditkitchen.com, Wikipedia.org, LifeHacker.com (ways to optimize everyday tasks), Ubuntu.org, McSweeneys.net, The Economist, SURFER Magazine, Speedcubing.com (Rubik's cubes), Infinite Illusions (yoyos)


The adaptation and optimization of technology, information and other, to both fulfill the needs of the many and satisfy the demands of the individual. Indirectly touches upon resolving my three pet problems: habitat fragmentation, illiteracy, and intolerance of all kinds.


Intel STS project: designing FPGA microchip to rapidly compute solutions to the shortest path problem & self-study of programmable logic design. Int'l Autonomous Robotics Contest. Expanding web business & training/hiring members of programming club. Surfing!


Arabian Nights play at my school, Oceanic Art Exhibition at SDMA, Internat'l Mathematica User Conference, Body Worlds anatomy exhibit, US Open of Surfing, US Presidential Inauguration, Yo-Yo World Championship


-Teddy Roosevelt's "Man in the Arena" Speech at Sorbonne


-Future: when the first practical quantum computer goes into operation


Exuberant, Innovative, Entrepreneurial, Reflective, Verbivore (i.e. language-eater/lover)


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Stanford admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


This essay comes from AdmitSphere who kindly allowed it to be republished here.


Well done is better than well said. Benjamin Franklin


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

