
Please write an essay (250 words minimum) on a topic of your choice, and attach it to your application before submission. This personal essay helps us become acquainted with you as a
person and student, apart from courses, grades, test scores, and other objective data. It will also
demonstrate your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself.


6. Topic of your choice. 


For as exclusive as it was, Copley's soloist room was rather simple, furnished with only a
piano and a bench. It was narrow too: the architect must not have considered the consequences of
claustrophobia before a solo performance. In any case, I took a seat on the bench and started to
set up my clarinet. Positioning the reed on the mouthpiece, I noticed the callus on my right
thumb, formed from having to support the instrument for so many years. I had never been
concerned about it before, but alone in the soloist's room, I continued to stare at it. I found it to
be an emblem of music's importance to me, and it reminded me of how far I had come to be
moments away from performing at the center of San Diego's grandest stage.



To be honest, I had never heard of the clarinet before I decided to join the elementary
school band. I had wanted to learn the flute, but when it came time to select an instrument, it was
clearly not an option: no boy wanted to be in a section dominated by girls; the risk of contracting
cooties was too great. I admit I was rather disappointed, but when I discovered the wondrous
squeaking sounds the clarinet could produce, the obnoxious young boy in me would not let me
turn back. In elementary and middle school, this innocent fun was what band was all about.



I then became a member of the local wind ensemble as an unassuming eighth grader who
sat near the back of the section. The focused rehearsal and advanced repertoire—Gustav Holst's
First Suite—was in complete contrast to the frivolous nature of band I was used to; yet, what I
felt was not constraint, but liberation. The Suite was a release of emotion, a perfect blend of
majestic and playful moments that uncovered in me a love for music I never knew existed.
Playing it was a cathartic uplift of spirit, an overwhelming of mind and soul with passion in its
purest form. From then on, clarinet was more a form of expression than anything else. As my
position in the band moved closer and closer to the front, I also discovered a kind of talent that I
began to cherish and hone with a private instructor.



I had been a student of the clarinet for almost half a decade before I had a private lesson;
it was a punch in the arm. The instructor pointed out bad habits I had developed in the most
elementary aspects of playing the instrument: air support, embouchure, articulation. I found it
rather shameful that he even had to demonstrate how to breathe properly. By the end of the
lesson, I was disheartened; the talent I thought I had discovered was not genuine. I reached a
point where I was ready to let music go. Then, the beacon of passion shone as intensely as ever,
and I realized that, despite the problems I was having, music remained the joyous means of
conveying emotion to the world that it once was. I resumed focused practice and became a
competitive musician. It would all culminate in the solo performance at Copley Symphony Hall I
was about to undertake.



Mind returning to the soloist's room, I looked away from the callus I had been staring at
for so long. Instead, I focused on the entire hand, and then on the other. As important as music
was to me, it was not the only passion of mine that these hands could produce. They could unfold
and recreate the laws of nature, as the AP Chemistry course I was taking revealed to me. Just as
the local band had done, the course provided me with a realization, a spark of interest that soon
became an intense flame. The wealth of information it covered revealed chemistry's intricacy, and the involved experiments allowed me to reproduce the wondrous reactions that had baffled
the world's greatest minds for so long. It was a difficult course, perhaps the most difficult one
offered at my school, but the depth and practicality of the subject developed in me a passion that
allowed me to look past the work and learn to love what I was doing. The class made some
students nauseous, but I took it a step further, participating and performing well in competitions
such as Science and Chemistry Olympiad.


Passion has come to define who I am. I hope to be able to express and spread it to other
people, so that they may come to experience the same wonders that I have. I would do both later
that evening, standing at the front of the stage, pouring my heart out in music for the audience to
hear. Just as it had done to me, forming a callus on my hand for me to contemplate alone in that
room, I hope my passion can leave a lasting mark on the world that people may look at and find
meaning in for years to come. 


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Common App admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


This essay comes from AdmitSphere who kindly allowed it to be republished here.


A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Alexander Pope


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

