
Tell us about a personal quality, talent, accomplishment, contribution or experience that is important to you. What about this quality or accomplishment makes you proud and how does it relate to the person you are?


I
am an Internet entrepreneur. Since age 12, I have coded and designed websites
-- for my school, the local community, and as a personal hobby and pastime. In
fact, I started my own Internet business in 2004 and was hired as a webmaster
by Intel Corporation this past summer. I also volunteer my free time to run the
website of the largest community service club at my high school, Key Club. My
interest in Internet technology started out as a mere curiosity and casual
pursuit, but has steadily evolved into a central part of who I am today.


When
I first signed onto the net at age 10, I felt a curiosity and passion unlike
anything I had felt before. The net was my new toy and I wanted to know what made it tick. Thus began my quest for answers. I
learned HTML, the basic building blocks of every website. Next, I taught myself
JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets . . . and the list goes on.


By
age 14, I considered myself a seasoned web design veteran. That year, I started
an Internet business called FreeTheFlash Entertainment. The website,
(http://www.freetheflash.com), is a multimedia entertainment portal that
collects user-submitted videos, flash animations, and games from all over the net.
Originally created to host my own creative work (short movies I made with my
friends, funny home videos, etc.), the website has grown exponentially and now
serves the entire online community. In the process of starting and maintaining
this website I’ve learned leadership, communication, and business skills that
literally define who I am today. I’ve learned that innovation and new ideas are
crucial in creating anything successful and worthwhile in today’s rapidly
evolving technological landscape.


I’m
proud of my web development talent because it allows me to share my creativity
with the world, while providing others a vehicle to share their creativity as
well. In the last year alone, my website reached over 620,000 visitors who
viewed over 3 million webpages. I’ve even made a deal with an advertising
company.


My dream is to push the envelope of Internet technology past its
existing boundaries and limitations. I’m not afraid to break tradition; to do
things better than they’ve been done before. I like the idea of creating
something that has value to those who use it. There is still a lot to be
learned about software and the Internet, and I plan to be on the forefront of
new developments. I have a strong background in leadership as well as exposure
to the high-tech industry and I desire to continue my higher education in the
fields of electrical engineering and computer science.


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more UC ​Berkeley admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Data is not information, information is not knowledge, knowledge is not understanding, understanding is not wisdom. Clifford Stoll


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

