
Virtually all of Stanford's undergraduates live on campus. Write a note to your future roommate that reveals something about you or that will help your roommate — and us — know you better. (100 to 250 words)


My middle name is "Reddy." Weird, no? I'm assuming you don't know about South-Indian middle names so here's what you should know: "Reddy" is the name of a caste in India thought to have consisted of warriors who later became lords and aristocracy. This caste became part of the Reddy Dynasty, established by Prolaya Vema Reddi. This South-Indian kingdom ruled coastal and central Andhra for 100+ years from approximately 1325-1448 CE. I could go on and give you a full history lesson, but the point isn't that my middle name originates from a line of warriors and kings. The point is, though I admire my ancestry, I can't personally connect to my middle name: I'm not a warrior or a king. So I reinvented myself. On the first day of 10th-Grade Pre-Calculus I asked to be called by my middle name. My teacher asked and I'll never forget his look of sheer confusion when I told him my middle name. It's strange knowing most people have no idea what my middle name really means. But that was my intention. For me, "Reddy" no longer denotes a caste. It represents someone who serves on a first-aid squad, knows how to ride a motorcycle, has a quirky randomness about him, texts as if writing a research paper (without slang), and wears flips-flops in the morning but moccasins in the evening. Honestly, you can use my first or middle name, but whatever you do, just know that I'll be "Reddy."


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Stanford admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire. William Butler Yeats


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

