
Everyone longs to be <a href="http://www.happy.com">happy</a>. Some people seem happy regardless of whatever they are going through in their lives. Others feel secure and satisfied even when they do not have the material things that other persons have. Another group seems happy even when they are sad and depressed. This is because happiness to them is just a thought away. Happy thoughts can alter the way you perceive the world, rejuvenating the body which in turn leads to happiness. The following are happy thoughts to make you happier in just a few seconds. When you are down and feel that you are all alone, most people have successfully gone through that situation. Remember happiness is not the absence of struggles but the ability of dealing with and overcoming them. That person next to you has fought fierce battles and won. You are no exception.


Others have won. Keep in mind that no one is stainless. No one is without a dark spot in their life. We all have our dark past. Do not dwell on your mistakes. Do not focus on what went wrong and where the rain began beating you. You can at best learn from the mistakes and move forward. Do not view the floods in your life negatively, at other times they may translate into future growth. Remember there is a difference between giving up and moving on. What others think about you is not essential. You cannot control other people, be it what they think about you or what they do to you. However, you can control what you think or take the things they do to you. Forget people’s feelings and thoughts about you. Think happiness. 


 


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Common App admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


Data is not information, information is not knowledge, knowledge is not understanding, understanding is not wisdom. Clifford Stoll


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

