
My house has never been quiet, and I do not think it ever will be. Living with six siblings is not the definition of tranquility. My parents’ affinity to invite perfect strangers into our home only adds to the chaos. However, I have learned more from this revolving door than I could have ever been taught in isolated silence. Living with close to fourteen people in the house at any one time is loud, yet below the noise there is a whisper that teaches the benefits of altruism.  My siblings taught me the importance of accepting people for their uniqueness through countless hours of listening to Devin's syncopated drumming, judging Elise's pirouettes, and being the subject of Lauren's experiments. I learned to go beyond mere acceptance; I evolved into a person who sees differences as opportunities to expand myself. Rather than shutting out the pounding, dancing, and experimenting, I decided to learn from it. I started playing instruments with Devin to learn a new "language." I went to Elise's recitals to uncover the value of dance expression. And I collaborated in, rather than subjected myself to, Lauren’s experiments to discover foundations of life, even if someone else had discovered them long before us. 


 The people who entered my home and lived alongside my large family taught be about my community’s diversity. Though doing this, they inspired me to pursue a multifaceted education despite my scientific emphasis. John, a Tongan taro farmer, was one of the first individuals that stayed with my family. As a young girl, he opened my eyes to a vastly different culture and encouraged me to respect people of all backgrounds. As I grew older, I met Meghan who represented the lasting effects of crystal meth on the body. Watching her struggle to correct her previous actions encouraged me to spread drug abuse awareness. Rob still serves as an exemplar of the negative effects of stereotyping people with mental illness, and propels me to stand up for equality. Nicole, Rachel, Anthony, and Nicholas serve as daily reminders of the difficulty of poverty. My parents have never ceased to surprise me with the people they take in. Although the loss of a bathroom, a television, or the ability to not wear pants may seem antagonizing, the lessons I have learned from each person that has passed through our home have taught me that a home is not created by the space itself, but rather its utilization. 


Francis Bacon once wrote, “Silence is the sleep that nourishes wisdom.” Although well acquainted with his method in the Chemistry lab, in my experience this proverb has not proven true. The cacophony of my home life has made me a dynamic learner. I am eager to find the lesson in every experience and interaction. Each unique person that has come into my home has expanded my understanding and fed my aspirations to become an informed, intricate and animate member of society. Their lives, including their wisdom and their downfalls that brought them into my life, inspire me to keep an open mind and learn from various perspectives despite any one particular subject I may major within. I dream of being admitted to a school that encourages holistic learning spurring me onward in my investigations as a student in all subjects. I want to grow as a student inside and outside of the classroom. Leaving for college may be daunting, but one of the best parts is the anticipation of seeing who might next occupy my room.


 


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Yale admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Alexander Pope


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

